>> Jason Rodriguez: So
let's look at what a base document for
an email campaign looks like.
So literally nothing very fancy
going on here, which is nice.
It's pretty easy to get an email.
It doesn't get super-hard until you start
getting into layouts and stuff like that.
But a couple of things going on here.
We're using the HTML5 DOCTYPE,
which is nice and short and succinct.
We used to rely on the most
popular DOCTYPE used to be
the XHTML Transitional 1.0 from,
what, a decade ago at this point.
It tended to force different email clients
to render that HTML a little bit better.
But HTML5 came out and
it's nice and short, and
things render really well
using the stack type.
So I usually push people to use that.
We have our HTML tag up here.
One thing to notice, that we are including
the language attribute on it.
Right now it's set to English since I'll
be coding and writing things in English.
But if you are sending
to different audiences,
you want to make sure you localize
that campaign for those audiences.
So this lang attribute is really
important, especially for
people that are using things like
screen readers or assistive technology.
Because that will tell the technology
to drop into whatever language
profile it needs to.
So a good example of this is [COUGH] if
you are sending an email that has Spanish
and it says hola.
But you still have
English as the language,
then it might pronounce
it hala instead of hola.
Which is absolutely not what's intended
unless you're getting a little
cheeky with your email copy.
But this is important to have in there for
accessibility purposes.
And the lang attribute can actually be
used on pretty much any tag, any HTML tag.
So common use of this would be if you
have multiple languages and an email.
So your main document might be English,
but then you could have disclaimer for
French users or Spanish users.
So you can go in there and set that on
whatever that container element happens to
be, whether it's a table or div.
An old towel assistive technology
to drop into that language profile.
So you make sure accents and
pronunciation are correct.
We have the head up here, we're gonna
be playing a lot in there when we
get to styling certain elements
of our email campaigns.
But a couple of things in here,
I like to include the title in an email.
This won't be used in most email clients
but we've actually found through our
research that a lot of people will
triage their emails and the browser.
So you'll see something like that view and
browser link at the top
of your email campaign.
And people will pop that
open in a browser tab and
they'll use it as like a read
it later type service.
So if you include the title in there,
then you can have that
populated in the browser tab.
So people know exactly what that tab is,
and they can come back to it,
it's a nice little reminder for people.
Nice thing to do is kind of just either
have your company name in here with
a quick message.
If you have a cool subject line or
something like that,
you could pull it in using a merge tag for
most the SPS.
But it's definitely one of
those nice to haves and
it helps to with people that
are using screen readers.
Because they'll read out that title of the
document when it starts going through it.
There's first meta tag, we're just setting
the UTFA to make sure that all of our
character and coding stuff are good.
And all those character render properly,
especially if we started using
HTML character stuff like that.
The second one is all about helping
out with making our emails responsive.
We'll be looking at that later this
afternoon when we start digging into
different responsive approaches.
But this is just setting that width,
the device width, and
that initial scale of one.
I would encourage you not to disable zoom
settings which you can do using this.
But we don't wanna do that because
a lot of people will zoom in on
content to make it more readable or
adjust their zoom settings.
And we don't wanna disable that behavior
cuz that's not our right to do that,
we don't wanna override
those user preferences.
The second or this third one here is all
about just making things a little bit more
compatible for Microsoft products for
anything using IEE or IE Edge.
This'll just help out with
random little bugs and stuff,
it's kind of like a boiler plate
thing to keep in there just so
we don't have to worry
about weird edge cases.
And then we have a style tag which
is where some of our CSS will go.
But we'll talk about in a little bit where
we should be placing most of that CSS in
our email campaign.
We do have something on the body here,
we have an idea body which we can
use if we need to target that.
But this inline style just overriding
margin settings and padding settings.
We wanna just zero those out so
that email clients are adding
anything around our email.
Introducing that extra space
that they might do by default.
This is important to have here on the body
instead of up here in the style block.
Because some email clients will
strip out the embedded styles or
the head of our document and
just display the body.
So if we included there, that helps ensure
that it's consistent across the widest
range of email clients available.
Any questions about any of this stuff?
Pretty basic.
There's not too much going on until we
actually start adding some code and
seeing how that renders
across email clients.